So I find accessibility often a bit murky
or difficult to describe, and a lot of
people will use it in ways that are
partially true, but not all the way true.
So I liked that this W3C web accessibility
initiative has this kind of definition,
which is if we make our sites
properly designed and coded,
people with disabilities can use them.
But the problem statement is many sites
and tools are developed with barriers that
make them difficult to use,
sometimes impossible.
So I think that this high-level idea
to focus on is accessibility is about
disability, that's a very
core tenant of it.
And it's about making sure that
our websites are easy to use, but
especially that they're not impossible
to use for people with disabilities.
I really liked this follow-up too because
I think one of my favorite things about
the web in general as a platform,
is its openness.
This idea that all of
the browsers are open source and
the standards themselves are open, and
most of the libraries we use are open,
and we all are kind of contributing
to this giant open ecosystem.
And one thing that struck me,
that I really have liked throughout
the years is that while it is true
that web accessibility means people
with disabilities can use the web, the
real goal that we should have in mind is
that people with disabilities can fully
appreciate, and contribute to the web.
So perceive, understand, navigate,
interact with the web and
contribute to it.
So again, the barrier isn't providing
a nice or a minimal experience for
people to use your website.
The goal should be that all
of these things that we do,
whether it's using the web,
contributing back to different things,
accessibility is important everywhere,
at every kind of level in there.
>> Speaker 3: There's just a question
about how accessibility might have changed
in recent years,
specifically the person might have
taken a previous version of the course.
>> Speaker 1: Yeah, I think a lot
of the roots of accessibility.
The core structure has not
changed all that much,
in the sense that we still have the same
standards bodies, we still have the same
high-level concepts of focus management,
and colors and semantic HTML.
There have been some really big
changes around the legal landscape.
So what used to be kind of a nice to
have has quickly become a requirement,
especially in the European Union and
the United States.
There have been quite a few cool
advancements within those standards
bodies.
So we'll talk about some new ways
of measuring color contrast and
some new rules for focus management
that have kind of been ironed out and
finalized over the last couple of years.
So yeah, I guess the double answer is
the kind of core foundational tenets have
stayed the same.
There's been a lot of great movement
in both the requirements and
having fleshed out some of
the specific standards.
>> That's great.
>> Speaker 1: Yeah, so
yeah, similar fields,
web performance is quite
similar in a lot of ways.
Making your website fast or
easier to use kind of has some overlaps.
And also uses that same word of
accessibility, a lot when we talk about
uptime, stability, services, things like
that, like how accessible your API is.
So there can be a little
bit of overlap there.
Internationalization also very similar.
Having a, for example English-only website
can be a barrier to a lot of people,
a lot of potential customers.
But for the sake of this class,
it's not the same thing as accessibility.
Today we're talking about strictly
disability focused things, but
it's another great field.
And UI design also has a lot of overlap
but we'll talk a lot about cognitive
disabilities, information architecture
just like the way that you structure your
website, making sure that it's easy
to be understood and easy to be used.
There is quite a bit of overlap there, but
we aren't going to dive very
far at all into UI design.
I think the furthest that we'll go is
playing around with colors and font sizes,
and things like that.
But we're not gonna get into
proper information architecture or
UX design today.
So there's quite a few disability
statistics that are very powerful.
I think like 26% of adults in the US
have some type of disability.
And disability is also like a moving
target in the sense that there
may be a population that doesn't have
a disability now, but as we all age,
it is more and more likely that
we'll develop some disability.
I think the statistics around people with
some type of eyesight or hearing loss,
as you get older are really staggering and
important.
And so I guess the thing to drive
home here is that this really affects
all of us, and
it affects a large number of people.
So I guess if you come at it from
the humanitarian standpoint, there's so
many people who need accessible websites,
and
if you come at it from the money
making for your business standpoint,
there's a lot of customers out
there who would benefit from this.
I've heard all these sort of
more negative anecdotes about,
well that's not super important, we're an
internal tool, that's not important to us.
And it's like that always
kind of gets me a little
bit cause it's like you don't know I
mean you've got this diverse team.
There's a really good chance that a lot
of this stuff, if you hit control or
command plus and
the font doesn't get bigger,
which a lot of websites are still
not working well that way.
That really stinks even if
it is an internal team.
There are so many things, it's unknown
what people are struggling with.
And I think a lot of this
stuff just helps everybody.
So yeah, I think that's great anecdote and
a lot of this stuff.
I think another thing I
like to drive home is,
for those that have taken my performance
or DevTools courses on a technical level,
this stuff is quite easy compared to that.
You can spend a small amount of time
making a really large impact on
these things.
So ideally we can all kind of get
excited and really improve our sites.
>> Speaker 3: People that
are otherwise super productive and
great at their jobs, but yeah,
might have a small impairment.
>> Speaker 1: Yeah, and
it can just be hard to know, and
it can be hard to discuss those things or
whatever.
Yeah, I mean I think that we'll get
into this concept that I really like
about kind of accessibility
helping everyone.
But yeah, I think it's really
important and I think it's great.
There was a story I heard once,
there's somebody, his name's Jennison,
he's the lead of
accessibility at LinkedIn.
And he had this great story that I loved
about doing an accessibility audit for
a car dealership.
And they had all these things that
made it basically impossible for
non-sighted users to use their website
to compare cars and things like that.
And he's working with the CEO and the
CEO's like, well, we just figured it's not
important because you need to be able
to see in order to be able to drive.
So why do we need this kind of thing?
And Jennison brings in all these customers
and there's all of these non-sighted
customers trying to buy cars for
their children who are unable to use this
dealership website and moving on,
and it really spoke to me in this.
You can't just say that, you can't just
say our product doesn't need this or
there's so much that you don't know about
all the people on your team, internally or
externally as customers who
are trying to use your website.
So yeah, I think those are great points.
When we think about disabilities and
especially when we start implementing
technical solutions, kind of break
them down into these four categories.
So there's mobility and
physical impairments or disabilities, so
that could be somebody
who can't use a mouse or
who struggles to type on a keyboard, and
uses some kind of assistive technology.
There's cognitive and
neurological disabilities.
So again information overload or
difficult navigation structure
can be really difficult here.
There's visual impairments, when I started
doing accessibility over a decade ago,
I was really thinking about this kind
of binary, sighted or not sighted.
And I went to all these workshops, and
learned about all of these different
conditions where people have
color blindness or they have some
amount of vision in certain eye.
Or they have conditions that make
things get a little bit rounded or
there's all of these different ways
that people perceive the web, and
that comes with a bunch of
interesting challenges.
And the same thing with hearing.
I think the kind of obvious one here
is like having captions for videos for
an example.
Yeah, so these are kind of the main
categories that we'll be thinking of
as we go along.
Another important point, I have all these
reasons why I think accessibility is
great, but one is that the web is already
accessible, even if your website is not.
And so the example that I always give is
what is largely thought to be the first
website.
Has anybody seen this before?
This website from CERN, and
it was supposed to be the introduction
of the World Wide Web, this novel
idea that you can share documents.
If you load this website, which I have
linked here, it's very accessible.
It's just using anchors and paragraph
tags and I think an H1 or whatever.
It's really easy to move
around with just the keyboard.
The screen reader works really well.
And so I always think the first
website ever can do it.
Surely we can all do it with ours.
This website is a lot more accessible than
modern websites with massive teams of
engineers behind them that I see today.
So cool, so kind of to sum that up,
the reasons I think it's great to learn
accessibility, I do think it's very fun.
We'll get into some APIs later that
I think are just excellent, and
really great to work with.
As developers or designers, we're often
the ones making websites inaccessible in
the first place through
our features that we add.
It is largely a human rights issue.
It is also more and more a legal issue.
It helps us reach a larger audience.
It can be really impactful, both for
your audience and for your team.
And I also think it's a really cool
way to kind of distinguish yourself
as a specialist on the team.
I think that having a strong accessibility
background has really helped me in my
career, where we'll get
a report from a customer.
And I can always kind of jump in and
say, actually,
I know how to do a lot of this stuff,
so I think it's very, very cool.